# Simple Message System with Laravel

The purpose of this project to demonstrate simple message system by using Laravel PHP Framework.

This project was generated by using composer.

One can use sqlite as a database to use the system.

This system includes following frameworks: 

> Laravel v10.5.0

> TailwindCSS v3.3.3 

# Requirements
You may need to install node package manager and composer in your system for laravel and / or tailwind css.

# Instructions
Clone the repository and execute the following command via console:

``````
composer install
``````

Set your default configurations in .env configuration file.

DB_CONNECTION=sqlite 

DB_HOST=localhost 

DB_PORT=3306 

DB_DATABASE=/home/laravel-project/database/database.sqlite 

For sqlite databases, you need to specify full path as above and place the sqlite file into root directory. 

Or skip this step and continue with the link below :)

### Database configuration
Check the following site for configuration: 

https://codeanddeploy.com/blog/laravel/how-to-use-sqlite-database-in-laravel-8-using-windows#2B9fcu1Nw6aojc7loMtho7NTv

### Migrations
Use the following command in project root directory via console to create database tables:

``````
php artisan migrate
``````

### Project Execution
Type the following commands concurrently in your project's root directory.

``````
php artisan serve
npm run dev
``````

Then check the 127.0.0.1:8000 on your browser!

# Future Works
Using blade template effectively

Tailwind css (done)

Dockerizing the project

# Author
Onur GÖKER

info[at]onurgoker.com

www.onurgoker.com
